To create a Cloud Spanner database using the gcloud command-line tool, follow these steps:

Ensure you have a Spanner Instance: You need an existing Spanner instance where you'll create the database.

Use the gcloud Command:

Here's the command to create a database in Cloud Spanner:

bash
Copy code
gcloud spanner databases create DATABASE_NAME \
    --instance=INSTANCE_ID \
    --ddl='CREATE DATABASE SCHEMA'
Replace:

DATABASE_NAME with the name you want for your new database.
INSTANCE_ID with the ID of your Spanner instance.
CREATE DATABASE SCHEMA with the schema definition for your database. Replace this part with your specific SQL-like CREATE TABLE statements and any other schema definitions you require.
For example:

bash
Copy code
gcloud spanner databases create my-spanner-db \
    --instance=my-spanner-instance \
    --ddl='CREATE TABLE Users (UserId INT64, Username STRING(MAX)) PRIMARY KEY (UserId)'
This command creates a database named my-spanner-db in the instance my-spanner-instance and defines a table named Users with columns UserId and Username.

Ensure to replace the database name, instance ID, and schema definition with your actual desired names and schema.

After running this command, your Cloud Spanner database will be created with the specified schema.



Certainly! Here's a step-by-step guide to creating a Cloud Spanner database using the Google Cloud Platform (GCP) console:

Open Google Cloud Console: Go to the Google Cloud Console.

Select or Create a Project: If you haven't already selected a project, choose an existing project or create a new one by clicking on the project dropdown menu at the top of the page.

Navigate to Spanner: In the left-hand sidebar, click on "Spanner" under the "Storage" section. This will take you to the Cloud Spanner page.

Select Instance and Database Creation:

Choose the Spanner instance where you want to create the database by clicking on its name.
Inside the instance details page, click on the "Databases" tab.
Click on the "Create Database" button.
Configure the Database:

Enter the desired database name in the "Database ID" field.
Define the schema for your database in the "Add DDL Statements" section. You can specify SQL-like statements for creating tables, indexes, and other schema components.
Optionally, add labels, set the default leader, or configure other settings available on the page.
Create the Database:

Once you've configured the database settings and defined the schema, click on the "Create" or "Create Database" button.
Wait for Creation: The database creation process might take a few moments. After completion, you'll see the newly created database listed under the selected Spanner instance.

That's it! You've successfully created a Cloud Spanner database using the GCP console. Adjust the settings and schema according to your requirements while creating the database.



